Who was Isaac Newton?
What are the things he contributed to this world in the space of ideas?
Wow. <laugh> uh, who was he?
He was born in, uh,
1642 in, uh,
near the small town of Grantham in England. In fact,
the house he was born in and that his mother died in is still there and can be
visited. Uh,
his father died before he was born. Uh,
and his mother eventually remarried a man named Reverend
Smith whom Newton did not like at all.
Uh,
because Reverend Smith took his mother away to live with him a few
miles away, leaving Newton to be brought up more or less by his grandmother.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> over there.
And he had huge resentment about that his whole life.
I think that gives you a little inkling that, uh,
a little bit of trauma in childhood may be a complicated father.
Son relationship can be useful, uh, to create a good scientist.
Could be, although this case it would be right, the, you know, absent father,
non father relationship, so to speak. Gotcha.
He was known as kid little that we do know for, uh,
being very clever about, uh, flying kites. And, uh,
there are stories about him putting candles and putting flying kites and
scaring the living devil out of people at night by doing that and things like
that, making things most of the, um, uh, uh,
physicists and natural philosophers I've dealt with actually, uh,
as children were very fond of making and playing with things.
I can't think of one I know of who wasn't actually,
they very good with their hands and whatnot. Uh, he, uh,
was, uh, his mother wanted him to take over the manner.
It was a kind of farming manner. They were the class of one known as Yemens. Uh,
there are stories that he wasn't very good at that one day.
One of the stories is he's sitting out in the field and the cows come home
without him. And he doesn't know what's going anyway, uh,
ad relatives. And, uh, he manages to get to Cambridge sent to Cambridge,
cuz he's known to be smart.
He's read books that he got from local dignitaries and some relatives.
Uh, and he goes there as what's known as a subor what does that mean? Well,
it's not too pleasant. Basically.
A sub was a Stu who had to clean the bed pans of the Richard
kits. Okay. Right. Uh, that didn't last too long. He makes his way.
Um,
and he becomes absorbed in some of the new ways of
thinking that are being talked about on the parts of Decart
and others as well. There's also the traditional curriculum,
which he follows and we have his notes. We have his, uh,
student notebooks and so on.
We can see gradually this young man's mind focusing and
coming to grips with deeper questions of the nature of the world and
perception even,
and how we know things and also probing and learning, uh,
uh, mathematical structures to such an extent that he builds on
some of the investigations that had been in this period before him to
create the foundations of a way of investigating processes that
happen and change continuously instead of by leaps and
bounds. And so on forming the foundation of what we now call the calculus. Yeah.